feat(genapi): add tuto openwebui (#4433)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/deploy-openwebui-with-generative-apis/index.mdx

<Macro id="requirements" />

### Prerequisites

- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- [Owner](/iam/concepts/#owner) status or appropriate [IAM permissions](/iam/concepts/#permission)
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) installed on your system

## Configuring Generative APIs on Scaleway

Scaleway's Generative APIs provide access to advanced AI models via simple API calls. To set up:

### Creating an API key

1. Log in to the [Scaleway Console](https://console.scaleway.com/).
2. Click on your **Organization name** in the top right corner of the console to display the menu.
3. Click **API keys** in the pop-up menu.
4. Click **Generate a New API Key**, provide a name, and store the key securely.

<Message type="tip">
  For detailed information about creating API keys, refer to [How to create API keys](/iam/how-to/create-api-keys/).
</Message>

### Identifying the API endpoint

Scaleway assigns a unique endpoint for your Generative API access. This can be found in the Generative APIs section of the console. The format typically follows:

```
https://api.scaleway.ai/<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>/v1
```

> If you have not created a dedicated project and are using the `default` project created with your Scaleway Account, you can use directly the following url: `https://api.scaleway.ai/v1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have not created a dedicated project and are using the `default` project created with your Scaleway account, you can use the following URL directly: `https://api.scaleway.ai/v1`.
```

You can also find the exact URL snippet including your `project_id` by visiting [Generative API Playground](https://console.scaleway.com/generative-api/models/fr-par/playground) and clicking on `View Code`.

<Message type="note">
  For more information about your Project ID, refer to our [dedicated documentation](/organizations-and-projects/how-to/create-a-project/).
</Message>

## Installing Open WebUI locally

Open WebUI provides an easy-to-use interface for interacting with AI models. The recommended installation method is via Docker.

### Running Open WebUI with Scaleway integration

> 1. Pull and Run the Docker container:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Pull and run the Docker container:
```

   ```bash
   docker run -p 3000:8080 \
     -e OPENAI_API_BASE_URL=https://api.scaleway.ai/<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>/v1 \
     -e OPENAI_API_KEY=<YOUR_API_KEY> \
     -v open-webui:/app/backend/data \
     --name open-webui \
     --restart always \
     ghcr.io/open-webui/open-webui:main
   ```

   <Message type="note">
     Replace `<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>` and `<YOUR_API_KEY>` with your actual values.
   </Message>

2. Navigate to `http://localhost:3000` in your browser to access the Open WebUI interface.

3. Click **Sign Up** to create an administrator account.

> 4. Select a Model from the available Scaleway AI models and start interacting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Select a model from the available Scaleway AI models and start interacting.
```

For more details, refer to the [Open WebUI Quick Start Guide](https://docs.openwebui.com/getting-started/quick-start/).

> ## Deploying Open WebUI Using Scaleway's Serverless Containers (Optional)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Deploying Open WebUI using Scaleway's Serverless Containers (Optional)
```

For cloud-based deployment, Scaleway's Serverless Containers offer a scalable solution.

### Deploying on Scaleway via the console

> 1. In the Scaleway Console, navigate to **Serverless** > **Containers**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Scaleway console, navigate to **Serverless** > **Containers**.
```

> 1. In the Scaleway Console, navigate to **Serverless** > **Containers**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the Scaleway console, navigate to **Serverless** and click **Containers**.
```

2. Click **Deploy Container** to display the container creation wizard.

> 3. Select an external registry and use the image `ghcr.io/open-webui/open-webui:main`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Select an external registry and use the `ghcr.io/open-webui/open-webui:main` image.
```

<Message type="note">

>   You do not need to configure the port as the default one - `8080` - is the one used by the image from `ghcr.io/open-webui/open-webui:main`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  You do not need to configure the port as the default one as `8080` is the one used by the image from `ghcr.io/open-webui/open-webui:main`.
```

</Message>

> 4. Enter a name for your container and configure it's resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Enter a name for your container and configure its resources.
```

> 4. Enter a name for your container and configure it's resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Enter a name for your container and configure its resources.
```

> 5. Click **Advanced options** and configure Secrets:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Click **Advanced options** and configure secrets:
```

   - Set `OPENAI_API_BASE_URL` and `OPENAI_API_KEY` with your specific values.

6. Click **Deploy container** to launch deployment. Once deployed, note the provided endpoint to access Open WebUI.

   <Message type="note">

>      Since Open WebUI default image is around 5GB size, deployment can take a couple of minutes before being ready.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Since the Open WebUI default image is around 5GB size, deployment can take a couple of minutes before being ready.
```

>      Since Open WebUI default image is around 5GB size, deployment can take a couple of minutes before being ready.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     Since Open WebUI's default image is around 5GB in size, deployment can take a couple of minutes to complete.
```

   </Message>

### Deploying on Scaleway using the ClI

> #### Ensure your Scaleway namespace exists

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Ensure you have a Scaleway Serverless Containers namespace
```

> Scaleway Serverless Containers are deployed inside a **namespace**. If you do not have one, create it first:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Scaleway Serverless Containers are deployed inside a **namespace**. Run the following command to create a namespace:
```

```bash
scw container namespace create name=openwebui-ns region=fr-par
```

> Find the namespace ID:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run the following command to retrieve the namespace ID:
```

```bash
scw container namespace list
```

> ### Create the Serverless Container

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Create the Serverless Container

```

> Now, create the container with your **Docker image and secret injection**:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run the following command to create the container with your **Docker image and secret injection**:
```

```bash

$ scw container container create name=open-webui \
    namespace-id=<YOUR_NAMESPACE_ID> \
    registry-image="ghcr.io/open-webui/open-webui:main" \
    environment-variables.OPENAI_API_BASE_URL="https://api.scaleway.ai/<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>/v1" \
    secret-environment-variables.0.key="OPENAI_API_KEY" \
    secret-environment-variables.0.value="<YOUR_SECRET_KEY>" \
    region=fr-par
```

   <Message type="note">
     Replace `<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>` and `<YOUR_API_KEY>` with your actual values.
   </Message>

> For more details, refer to Scaleway's [Serverless Containers documentation](/serverless-containers/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, refer to Scaleway's [Serverless Containers documentation](/serverless-containers/).
```

---
meta:
  title: Deploying Open WebUI with Scaleway's Generative APIs
  description: This guide explains how to deploy Open WebUI with Scaleway's Generative APIs using Docker or Scaleway's Serverless Containers.
content:
  h1: Deploying Open WebUI with Scaleway's Generative APIs
  paragraph: Learn how to integrate Scaleway's Generative APIs with Open WebUI for a seamless AI-powered experience using Docker or Scaleway's Serverless Containers.
tags: open-webui docker scaleway generative-apis
categories:
  - generative-apis
dates:
  validation: 2025-02-17
  posted: 2025-02-17
---

Integrating Scaleway's Generative APIs with Open WebUI allows you to leverage powerful AI models in a user-friendly, self-hosted interface.
Open WebUI is an open-source frontend that simplifies interactions with AI models, providing an intuitive alternative to proprietary AI interfaces.

This tutorial will guide you through:

- Configuring Generative APIs on Scaleway
- Installing Open WebUI locally
- Deploying Open WebUI using Scaleway's Serverless Containers

> By the end, you'll have a fully functional AI-powered setup.

Author: ```suggestion
By the end, you will have a fully functional AI-powered setup.
```

3. Click **Sign Up** to create an administrator account.
4. Select a model from the available Scaleway AI models and start interacting.

For more details, refer to the [Open WebUI Quick Start Guide](https://docs.openwebui.com/getting-started/quick-start/).

## Deploying Open WebUI using Scaleway's Serverless Containers (Optional)

For cloud-based deployment, Scaleway's Serverless Containers offer a scalable solution.

### Deploying on Scaleway via the console

1. In the Scaleway console, navigate to **Serverless** > **Containers**.
2. Click **Deploy Container** to display the container creation wizard.
3. Select an external registry and use the `ghcr.io/open-webui/open-webui:main` image.
<Message type="note">
   The default port `8080` is used by the `ghcr.io/open-webui/open-webui:main` image, so no further configuration is needed.
</Message>
4. Enter a name for your container and configure its resources.
5. Click **Advanced options** and configure secrets:
   - Set `OPENAI_API_BASE_URL` and `OPENAI_API_KEY` with your specific values.

6. Click **Deploy container** to launch deployment. Once deployed, note the provided endpoint to access Open WebUI.

   <Message type="note">

>      Since the Open WebUI default image is around 5GB size, deployment can take a couple of minutes before being ready.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     Since the Open WebUI default image is around 5 GB size, deployment can take a couple of minutes before being ready.
```
